# Processes and signals
## What is a Process?
A process is an executing (i.e., running) instance of a program. Each process is guaranteed
a unique PID, which is always a non-negative integer. It's called an ‘instance of a program’, 
because if the same program is run lets say 10 times then there will be 10 corresponding processes.

### Types of Processes in Linux
In Linux processes can be of two types:
* <strong>Foreground Processes</strong>
   depend on the user for input
   also referred to as interactive processes
* <strong>Background Processes</strong>
   run independently of the user
   referred to as non-interactive or automatic processes

## What are Linux signals?
A <strong>signal</strong> is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition.
Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action. A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated
at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.

There are two types of signals:
* <strong>Maskable</strong>: signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).
* <strong>Non-Maskable</strong>: signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is
signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.

## Resources
* [Linux PID](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/qVGxUt1QMIV4B4oVrQBlQg)
* [Linux process](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/px2TdWSjVO8i9SB5gHchAw)
* [Linux signal](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/qQSGz9CN52PVF3IPCuaRiw)
* [Process management in linux](https://intranet.alxswe.com/rltoken/XlYrlghzNZ6Z1cbI_IPaiA)

  ## Learning Objectives
- What is a PID
- What is a process
- How to find a process’ PID
- How to kill a process
- What is a signal
- What are the 2 signals that cannot be ignored

### man or help:

- ps
- pgrep
- pkill
- kill
- exit
- trap
